Add blog post about ASO v2.17 features (#5075)
Azure/azure-service-operator: docs/hugo/content/blogs/v2.17-features-with-bevan.md

---
title: "Developer Talks - 2.17 Features with Bevan"
date: 2025-12-19
draft: false

> description: "Bevan goes over some of the features that are coming out in ASO v2.17, and why they're exciting!"

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Bevan goes over some recent and upcoming features in ASO and how they contribute to a better user experience."
```

---

> With the release of ASO v2.17 coming soon, this felt like a great time to go behind the curtain and get a better idea of what us devs have been working on, and why they're excited for certain features to land.

Author: ```suggestion
With the release of ASO v2.17 coming soon, this felt like a great time to go behind the curtain and get a better idea of what us devs have been working on, both landed and upcoming, and how they contribute to a smoother user experience for ASO users.
```

> With 2.17, two exciting features that are landing revolve around quality. Along with the other features, we hope that they will make using ASO that much smoother for our users.

Reviewer: This is quality of experience, not reliability, so we need to qualify.

```suggestion
With 2.17, two exciting features that are landing focus on user experience.. Along with the other features, we hope that they will make using ASO that much smoother for our users.
```

> With 2.17, two exciting features that are landing focus on user experience.. Along with the other features, we hope that they will make using ASO that much smoother for our users.

Author: ```suggestion
We'll go over two exciting features, one landing in v2.17 and one that shipped in v2.16. Alongside our other host of improvements, we hope these features make using ASO that much smoother for our users.
```

    --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    RESPONSE 405: 405 Method Not Allowed
    ERROR CODE: MethodNotAllowed
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    {
      "code": "MethodNotAllowed",
      "message": "Message: The requested verb is not supported."
    }
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    " name="sample-sql-throughput" 
    namespace="aso-test-samples-creationanddeletion-test-sqldatabase-v1a-7e1fc" 
    azureName="default" 
    action="BeginDelete"
```

With this new enhancement, the workflow in ASO is enhanced to detect when a resource can not be deleted directly, return a more informative error message than what you would see previously, and provides details on how to unblock the resource deletion.

> ## Allowing specification of role assignments by using well-known names

Reviewer: This landed in v2.16, our previous release. I'd suggest leaving this here but changing the title of the blog post to something like "Developer Talk - Quality of life features".

Author: Ack: changing title to `Developer Talks - Quality of Life Features with Bevan` and description to `Bevan goes over some recent and upcoming features in ASO and how they contribute to a better user experience.`

[This feature](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/pull/4923) builds upon the support of well-known names added in [#4922](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/pull/4922) and allows users to specify RoleAssignments using the well-known name of a [built-in RoleDefinition](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles) instead of the full ARM ID.

> Before this change if I wanted to assign the "Contributor" role, it would require something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before this change if I wanted to assign the "Contributor" role, it would require something like this, using the published GUID:
```
